Okay, we're live.
Hi. This has been kind of a crazy week
outside of work and uh I haven't been
able to stream very much. We should be
good for most of
today and I have a few
plans. This Yeah, just a few plans for
things to do.
First thing
was I did have a
request to look into tensor dict uh for
what we've been doing here. So I'm going
to do that.
Basically, folks just wanted to know if
we could clean up the way that we're
passing all sorts of stuff to the
policy. So, right now we
have it takes
uh o to bites, you know, it takes
Where is it? It has different return
signatures. So, can we just clean all
this up if we use a tensor
dict? First of all, before I waste time
on this, I want to know how reasonable
this thing
is. That sounds reasonable, right?
But I think that you're just going to
end up moving this block of
logic. It won't take very long to to do
though. So I can try it at
least. Does tensor dick do anything
useful? Try with a dict
first or simple name space
maybe a new name space.
Then we just do this I
guess. Oops.
Policy
output. Let's
see which logits
this and then this
E3B this doesn't help because we still
have to have this in main
right and we also need this value
flatten
And then I guess now we would do
or just done. So values actions log
props. So this is just policy
Oh, divide and op equals.
Where's CPU offload?
probably not policy output either,
right? Because we need more than just
that.
Yeah. So I think we just have to call
this like sample or
whatever. Data can't be data.
A little bit stuck.
Then you're going to want rewards in
here, right?
See? And now we have to
like This is so gross.
I promised I would give this a genuine
try though. Right now, this is not
looking this is not looking
good. You know, I usually trust my
intuitions pretty darn well on like why
I do and why I don't do things.
Sometimes I'm
wrong. Sometimes I'm just being wrong
and and stubborn, but usually
not. We will at least make this run.
turn to
action. Okay.
We're not going to mess with the
experience buffers initially. I think we
just wanted to try this.
I guess that mostly works,
right? Yeah. Well, we have to add in a
few things.
Done. Was it NVIDI and mask or whatever?
Try
this. I'm just
start debugging from
here. Missing state.
I mean, I see why this is convenient,
but I don't know if this is
good, you
know. We'll try for the default model.
So, what happens here?
Okay. So we have observations
here. Now this becomes sample.
And then we do decode
actions which also take sample.
and then we get all the way to Ford
train. Cool.
train which this should be
similar
sample assuming we get sample here right
same as before
kind of
shitty. Honestly,
Well, I don't want to just like do the
exact thing that was requested, even if
it's going to be shitty, and say he or
see it's shitty. I think I'll try to
make this the best version of it I can,
and then decide whether I still think it
sucks.
Okay. So, now I just have to do this in
the train.
What the hell do we do with the batch
data now
though? Is it different?
Oh, that's
mistake. Just do
Maybe, you know, I'm kind of actually
hopeful that there's a version of this
that
works. It's just not quite this.
Hang on a second. I'll be right back.
All
right, there we go.
literally just becomes this right. So
policy train
for sample
uh but this is not necessarily good on
its own. So we have to do sample value.
is going to do
this. We get to get rid of this
block. All right.
See if I can get past a little bit more
of this
then. And now we fail
in fail up here still.
Uh, it shouldn't be calling forward
train. It shouldn't. Uh, it's calling
the wrong function
somehow.
Cool. That is a policy.
We call this one or do we call the wrong
one
somehow? Oh, we call the right
one. Ah, and it can't
unpack it.
Oh, I literally
did CPU loss. Okay.
value Yeah.
No attribute. B reward
block. Spirits has no attribute.
Really? Oh, this might be a P30 thing.
Hang
on. Yeah. Hey, that's uh
Thought we had the
rewards.
No. Let's go. Just check what it was
before I mess with
it. Get up.
18 is nice. One more fork for
100. One more fork for 100. Go fork it
now. Oh, did I totally forget about
chat? Yeah, I totally forgot about the
chat. Well, there's the chat. I don't
know if you're still here, Captain, but
uh No, I'm doing something a little
different. I'm just doing some refactor
stuff.
And I always forget to flip it back to
stream mode. I have the overlay without
the chat that I use for um you know dev
meetings where I'm like working on code
with
people. Oh, nice cleaning up dev branch.
Um, I had somebody request I had a
client request that
we see if we can like improve just the
way the dev experience of like trying
new algorithms and stuff cuz it's really
difficult to have to thread all the data
through
uh the model and the train and like the
experience buffer and everything. Now,
their suggestion was to just like throw
it all into a tensor dict which is close
to what I'm doing right now. Um, I don't
think that's going to be the best thing.
I think that's like the antiattern of
every function just takes a strct and
you unpack everything from that giant
strruct and you have no idea what's
where. And it's even worse in Python cuz
it's not a typed
strruct. But I think we're going to be
able to find something to clean it up a
fair bit.
I mean, basically they took a look at
like how we had like four different code
paths at the moment and they were like,
"Hey, what the hell? How do you do
anything with this?" And I sort of said,
"Well, you know, this isn't going to be
what stays here, right? This is just for
testing." But they said, "Well, you
could just merge all these features and
have them out earlier with clean code.
if you just uh threw it all into a
tensor dict, you wouldn't have all these
code paths. So, we're going to see if
that's possible. We're going to see if
that's
possible. But I also really don't like
the idea of passing everything as just a
tensor dict. I think I might pass extras
as a tensor dict or something. So, you
know, any extra information that you
need above what is normal could go into
a tensor dict. So then you have like
this extra optional thing for
uh you know whatever algorithm
experimentation you want. I think that
could
work. And it doesn't even need to be a
tensor dict here really. I think that I
don't think that you get anything from a
tensor dict. I think a normal dict would
do it or a namespace. Probably use a
puffer namespace.
tough to Yeah. Exactly right. And that's
the thing. It's like, oh, you want to be
the framework for this, you want to be
the framework for that. And that's what
I hear from a lot of industry people.
Oh, you know, you're trying to build the
framework for this or the framework for
that. And you know, yeah, that makes a
lot of business sense. Let's like make
an ecosystem and lock everybody to that
ecosystem. But that's not what I'm
trying to do, right? I'm trying to make
all this simple and easy. Um, so you
know, I don't care if the result of this
is that people use various parts of
Puffer Lib and like they like
incorporated into their own code. I
don't care. You know, you can do that.
I'd rather not have people feel like
they're locked to a big thing that they
have to
learn. Framework suck.
Oh, simple. Where's it state? Oh, I just
forgot to extract this.
I think that if I were to really try to
clean this all up properly, we would get
like we'd get something substantially
simpler. There's just so much stuff to
do, man. It's
like I also need to like eat and
exercise and take meetings and stuff,
you know? I kind of feel like if I were
to just lock myself in a room for 3
weeks, right, and just code and sleep,
we'd kind of have a lot of the stuff
done
already. I guess I just need more um
more contributors to help with the
peripheral stuff that I have I have
thinking about. you know that there are
um there are at least two more like
awesome awesome environments that we
could
have that would be like really easy
because they would just be ports of
existing code like existing well-written
code. Like there's so much stuff that
can be
done and I'm always thinking
about and I finally broke the uh I
finally got off of the stupid Overwatch
kick so I'm no longer wasting large
quantities of time and you know the
evening a couple nights a
week I hit gold and said, "Okay, you
know what? I did it. I'm good. Enough
game." What M's just like craft decks
and kinetics like the um the ones from
Forers Labs. I mean, I wouldn't want to
do this without talking to them first
cuz it's like it's kind of disrespectful
to just like do a port of somebody's end
without like talking to him first about
it. But we do have a collab with him and
I think it would make him easier to use.
Yeah, that that's the problem though. I
have a really addictive personality. You
can probably tell. So, uh I'll be like
thinking about that constantly instead
of work. Um so, what I try to do it I'm
getting better, you know, over the last
couple years I've gotten better at
reward hacking myself. So, uh, what I'm
trying to do at the moment is say,
"Okay, you know, let's just rewire that
portion where I was thinking about
freaking whatever game it is to just
thinking about getting myself back in
good physical shape because there's only
so much of that you can do before you're
tired." And then it just goes right back
to RL. So, that's what I've been doing.
I don't know. Like games are like
incredibly incredibly addicting to me.
Where is this thing
man? Policy train sample 356.
So this gets passed
none. Oh, cuz it its state is not none,
right?
Uh, right. So, this is going to be
state. Okay.
still none type has no attribute demi.
Where is
this? Oh, is it just supposed to be none
for state?
Maybe I should just pass it that way,
right? Maybe that's more general
anyways cuz that'll let you use
different types of RNNs.
actually now I'm thinking about it. You
know, with all the stuff going on
lately, one of the most useful things uh
would be to find more people like you
and Spencer who just like want to learn
RL stuff, have good programming
background, and like, you know, can
actually take on pretty sizable
projects. That's probably one of the
most useful damn things at the
moment would be just to expand that way.
But hey, as soon as you're done with
Impulse Wars, we will have all sorts of
fun stuff for you to get on to.
There's honestly so much research right
now that's
like is relatively accessible and is
hugely hugely valuable to the field.
Okay, so that actually
runs and it
trains.
Perfect. Cool. So, this works. Uh, I got
to do a couple things real quick and
then I will be back and we will, uh, now
instead of just having it work, we'll
actually make this good and we'll see if
this is something we can add to Puffer.
Be back in bit.
Camera crashed. Hang
on. Got to love drivers. I'm quiet.
Let's do
this. So, how did this work out for
us? I mean, it's like it's kind of okay.
Um, it looks like it kind of reduces
code paths, I
guess. The thing I don't like about
this,
right? So, first of all, it's Python, so
it's not like this is a strct or
anything. So you can't actually see
what's in it and stuff's going to get
added dynamically and all that. Um, so
that's not
great. And because it's Python, it's a
waste to actually bother declaring it as
something that looks kind of like a
strct. So that's not going to be great
either. So you're just going to get past
this name space and you have no idea
what's in it.
So I guess the alternative
here if I just did this a little less
aggressively.
Right. We pass
extras. So what if we like undo a little
tiny bit of
this? Well, how much of it
though? Sample logs, right?
Maybe let's look at what this was
before. So before
entropy LSTM
state, well, this is the like the really
ridiculous version. We'd actually
cleaned that up already a little bit in
depth before we even did this, right?
Because now it was just this.
I guess I could
do mean and standard
deviation. So what we
return logits
values. What about
state? State is still the LSTM pathway,
right?
What if I just use state for everything,
So you pass
in signature will be observation state.
returns logits.
I think that would do most of the work.
having all these
underscores. We also don't need entropy
here. That's easy to fix.
Yeah, I think you need to at least
return something. You can't just have
everything be modifying strcts in
place. So, let me try that
next. Okay, so instead of doing
sample, you state
And we'll take this out.
We have action log prop is sample
logits
logits. Okay, that's a little better,
right? And then this is still fine.
State
hidden comes out of
this. See what was it? And then reward
this is R.
sample. Oh.
Oh, state.
are something like
this. Let's see what this does to the
model though. So we pass
state. Uh and this can just be none by
default, right?
So this
is
observations,
stateations, whatever.
And I don't think this even needs state,
right? Cuz you can do like
this. Hidden is going to be
this. So you just
return and then we do
state.hidden. It's
hidden. And then what's this? Uh, logit
value. Oops.
Stupid.
Oops. Okay, that's
easy. And this also needs
state zero.
and then this board frame is the same
exact thing as as the other
one. All
right. Decode
actions. Now we need to now modify this.
So this is takes
observations. Okay, that's easy. And now
this takes was it hidden?
Delete
this. These are actually logs, not
actions.
So we'll do
here
values with name
space name.
expand as values. I don't know if we
need to do that.
I'll move this up here for
now. But I don't think we need to do
this. So I think this will get cleaned
up quite a
bit because yeah, this I don't think
that you need to materialize this extra
data here. And that'll be a little
optimization. Cool. And now we have a
uniform API on this.
And same thing here. So this is going to
be patient state. And I also forgot to
make this state default to
none. It's optional.
All right. And then we do so in code
observations. This gets
hidden, right? And then we
do state.hidden equals hidden.
No,
actually
H equals state LSTMH state
LSTMC. And this gives you hidden, comma,
C. And then we do state
hidden. We do policy is going to
return logs values.
and values.
Okay, I think that's better. That's like
way less
magic. Stay is going to be
Yep. Sample observation equals
X. Heck no. That's
weird. State.
I don't even think this
takes this, does
it? Where did you get the 3D text
drawing code from in Impulse Wars? The
Ray Lib
sample. I don't even think you should
use that, honestly. Like, it looks bad.
I would just get an icon
pack, but
uh this
You can just delete all that code and
like put an icon pack in.
using an out of draw ammo
count. It looks bad when I zoom
in. Sure, you can do that.
I think technically you'd want like
billboard sprite for that, but you know,
whatever you want to
do it'll look weird when you like draw
it from different angles otherwise. I
would think
2D doesn't respect
zoom. Billboards require a
texture.
H, that's annoying. H well, whatever you
can do. As long as it looks decent, it's
fine. Not worth, you know, agonizing
over.
Okay, now we need to redo this
signature.
go get the original signature back. I
think I uh probably jumped the gun on
that.
mean state at
all. Maybe not.
Okay, that's
better. Hey, what's up? Doing a little
bit of refactoring on
uh the clean puff RL file file at the
moment. trying to make it a little bit
easier to try out different algorithms
and stuff without making a mess of the
code cuz the dev branch got really messy
with like all the new different
algorithmic uh tidbits I was testing
out. So, I'm trying to see if there's a
way to like do all this and keep it
clean and not make it any more
complicated. Yeah.
Reward should be on same device,
huh? Where did that happen? That should
have happened up top somewhere.
Is there a need for implementing other
types of algorithms for benchmarking and
research? Um, I mean, possibly. So,
here's the thing, right? Everybody who's
built an RL library for the last decade
is like, oh yeah, we need to put all the
algorithms in, right?
But most of them kind of just suck. So
there's not really a point really. The
thing that we want to have is we want to
demonstrate, you know, okay, this is the
best algorithm. We have exhaustive
experimental evidence. We provide the
best
algorithm. There's a need for research
stuff more than input design. Yeah, for
sure. I mean, but not all of these are
entirely new algorithms, right? Some of
them are just tidbits that you can add
on. For instance, a really basic task
for somebody would be to go test out
different learning rate schedulers,
right? On a whole bunch of our
environments, do like a bunch of
hyperparam sweeps and say, "Hey, you
know, actually cosine analing is always
better than linear annealing or cosine
analing is better in seven out of 10
environments or like you know what
should our default be for that, right?"
Um, and then there's, you know, there's
other stuff like we haven't bothered
doing any comparison of optimizers yet.
We haven't even bothered sweeping the
optimizer parameters. I'd like to know
how much importance there is there,
right? Um, let me think what else. I
mean, there are tons of these little
like research tasks around that have
just come down to running ablations on
stuff. And yeah, I mean there are
possibly
uh bigger things we can be doing with uh
on the algorithm side. I am interested
in some off policy stuff. I think that
there's definitely value in having a
prioritized experience replay. The only
issue I have is that most of the methods
in that space are just way more
complicated than they need to be and
they're kind of obnoxious. So, like, is
there some way we can get a form of
prioritized experience replay in there?
Um, really obvious example of this,
right? Like any of our very sparse
reward environments like the mazes,
you're going to get a couple lucky
solves early in training. Um, but if you
don't learn from those, then nothing's
going to happen after that. So, you
know, you'd like to keep those
trajectories in the training buffer and
keep learning from those. uh you can't
really do that with PO as it's written,
but maybe you don't have to go all the
way to the mess of off policy algorithms
either. There's a lot of a lot a lot
that can be done here. It really just
comes down to who's interested in
contributing and who wants to actually
like, you know, put in the time to help
with these things cuz I'm working as
many hours as I can, but I can't do
everything.
data to keep and replay
buffers. I mean, even if you were to
just keep the obvious like outlier
really high value trajectories, that
would do something already, right? So,
here, let me show you something. This
thing
here, where is it?
Apple. So, this paper here, they did
advantage filtering. So they just got
rid of most of the uh most of the
observations that didn't have a high
advantage and that sped up their
training a lot. This completely breaks
LSTMs though. So you can't use this with
any form of method that has memory. And
uh the analog to this would
be like probably trajectory level or
transition level stuff that's done in uh
in off policy. So I think that there's
like something here to this, but it's
not trivial to integrate without
breaking all your
architectures. I there's like I have a
half dozen of these in my head, right,
that like need to be tried. We just need
I will go through them myself, but the
more people we have
helping, the faster it gets done.
The heck? Where is
this? And did I branch off the wrong
thing? No.
Oh, I
see. Is this using GPUs?
This is using
GPUs. I thought that there was like
um a transfer on here though.
Somehow this original code worked right.
could have sworn there was
um there was something there.
[Music]
This isn't
CPU and clamps.
restore. Oh, that's annoying. But okay.
Well, now we
take what's it obs be of this. Get rid
of this.
And then this is going to give us what's
log.
state
here. LSTM
H. We get
logs.
Um, you have to detach these, don't you?
That seems wrong to me honestly the way
that you have to detach
these. Maybe not though actually because
yeah it's on a whole sequence so we're
good. Uh but I've totally broken
training
somehow. Lovely.
was working before.
Oh, what did I
break something?
Do I have to go figure out what was up
with the rewards
before? Cuz this is on CPU, right? And
it somehow was supposed to have gotten
to GPU.
swear there was like a piece of code
that did That
Yeah, here. Right. Is
this No, it's this is only for
ops. Should have been
somewhere. Guess not though.
Okay. I mean, that shouldn't be what's
breaking it, though, should
it? Probably something stupid. Let me
look.
Oh, I think I know what it is. Hang
on.
Follow that.
All
right. Did something
maybe I did the same thing
here. Doesn't look like it.
It's got to be something really basic, I
would imagine. Right.
Okay, maybe it's in
here. I messed something dumb up
here. Put observations hidden
decode just values, right? That's
fine. This is fine.
This is fine.
Wait.
Gotcha. Decode
action. That's it right there.
There we
go. Okay, that's I think that's what the
original was
doing. Time is at
11. I got a little bit more time.
I'm going to take a couple minutes, get
myself a new mug of tea, and
um then we will see whether this is
better, how we can clean this up, and
whether this actually does anything for
us. I'll be right back.
Okay, let's figure this stuff
out. Hey, Twitch,
folks. That definitely reproduces the
original. That's a full solout.
Perfect.
Um, I mean, I don't think this is bad,
right?
You
have observations and you have
state. State's optional if you don't
have a recurrent model,
right? And you can smuggle whatever you
want into
state. You have a uniform output API or
just output standard. It's just logits
and
values. There's no special casing to
handle. This is
better. So I'm happy with this. I think
this is in fact
better. And like the values thing is
fine. You know, we just mean standard
deviation. No big
deal. I think I'm happy with
this. This cleans up the code a bit. I
think I'm actually I wasn't too
optimistic at the start cuz like I think
with observations there and like the
whole just everything into that state is
too
much. I think like this is
fine. I think let's just fix um you know
whatever other stuff I've broken with
P30 and with non-recurrent and then
we'll merge this
Uh we don't want to flatten these ones.
Actually, these ones are meant to
have
indices. Yeah, let's do
this name space.
All
right, there's P3L running. It works
just
[Music]
fine. And the only thing I think is we
might have to do some reshapes for
um non-recurrent model.
cannot be multiplied. And this is
probably
in
train. Yeah, this is in
train. So, we forgot there's a there's a
reshape in here that has to be done.
right
here. Yeah, that's it.
And there you go. Tiny little bottle.
Why does this thing not kill
No big deal for
now. I kind of like
this. I think this is fine overall.
simplifies some stuff and I think it's
good. Um, now
technically with this handle nested OB
spaces there's not really a
point. Yeah, I think we'll not mess with
that for now. I think we just do this
and we're
happy. Let's do that for now.
Just merge this to D.
All right,
cool. That worked. That cleaned stuff up
a fair bit. Still a little bit of
branching, but it's mostly good.
Um, next
Not really an ocean.
Just going to make
uh additional stuff here.
Make n from
config. Yeah. So it loads this file
directly.
right?
What's this
human? And I think that we don't need
the event. I think we can just return
this,
right? Because it's already a popand.
That should be
fine. Puffer
lip. It's fine.
All
right. So, that should give us
this. And then
We have this any
file. We'll see what this does.
Oh, does this fail
build this package
break? Hang
on. The
heck failed installing
wheels. Really?
Python kind of sucks sometimes, doesn't
it?
Looks like a numpy versioning bug.
setup.py for
numpy. Ah, so they just have like some
weirdo version of numpy, I guess. Okay,
we can fix that though.
I think it's this
one.
Okay. Do I have
this? No. This is the
hole. and get
her.
And what do we do from here?
bad numpai
version. Perfect. That now works.
I should get a load
fail. I guess this doesn't have this
param,
huh? That's not
good. Let's get this config.
Yeah. So, for whatever reason, the setup
doesn't install the
uh the
Syon. So, we'll just build this
manually.
cannot
open. That's fine.
util.comconfig
Uh, it's not packaged correctly.
Is this utilla built
in? There isn't, right? Not crazy.
config from
path. It should be here,
right? Hang
on. Did he link me the
main? He linked
me. Oh, wait. He linked me puffer
release. Yeah, he linked me a different
branch. I didn't notice.
It's It's weird.
Yeah. Okay. These are the
same. It's annoying.
Nothing in here.
config from
path. It's
hydro. Well, I mean, I don't have to do
this right now. I can do like this.
I don't see this util file anywhere.
Okay.
Well, that's fine for now.
Cool. So, this is actually still
fine. Pull
this. Now, we're back on
de
11:30. Lots of stuff to work on. I'm
trying to think what next. I mean, I'm
going to be back after uh lunch and
meetings and stuff later.
But before
that, let me
think. There's a lot of stuff to figure
out. President, I'd really like to
figure out this P30 stuff.
There are a lot of different algorithms
to fiddle with at the
moment. Maybe I will fiddle with P30 a
little
bit. Did I ever get that new sweep
running?
Doesn't look like I
did. Yeah. No, I didn't.
Right. Okay. Let's do that. Next.
Then we'll just run
um this puff
parameter. Oh, right. I have to
Okay, still this puff value in,
right? And I still have it here.
Perfect. So, I just had to run
something. I just failed to do
that. Let's fix that right now.
Okay, that's snake. No big deal.
sweep.train.puff. Okay, so this is part
of the sweep
here. And I think I just failed to
enable E30,
right? Yeah.
Break
out
sweep use
room. I
think that should be fine.
And the other one that I wanted to run,
right,
was Oops.
We'll have to test this
locally, but I want to do uh the atom
params.
learning rate beta
epsilon weight
decay let's see AMS grad
I was going to just do one real quick to
see if it makes a big difference.
we had four
parameters and weight
decay and weight decay is zero. So I
think we do weight decay
separately. Let's just do these in the
epsilon.
So, we'll just
do and then we'll just add these to the
sweep.
Let's just remove this one. We're not
going to use
this. Hey, how's it
going? Log it.
Normal
five.
Oops.
12.9. Was it 999? Yeah, that's fine.
Looks reasonable enough,
right? Took a break after leaving. Going
to start up my N.
Good luck,
man. A lot to learn. Learn
quick. One of the best things you can do
is just getting really good at general
purpose programming.
If you do that, you can build whatever
the heck you
want, including all this RL stuff.
Oh, we didn't have this
sweep. Oh, and actually we have epsilon.
What's that different here?
Are you sweeping all hyper prampt?
Yes, that is the best way to do it
normally. I actually don't think that
like e minus notation works here
annoyingly enough.
something like this.
That still
runs. I don't think you actually can in
uh in these any files. I seem to
remember not
I could double check,
but not a big
deal. Isn't it going to be funny if I've
been doing all this algorithm work and
something stupid like this makes way
more of a
difference? I honestly wouldn't be
surprised at all.
E3B. Hang on. Do I have E3B
on? No, I do not. Good.
Sweep Neptune
[Music]
tag breakout at
Adam. Just going to need my token cuz I
just screwed that up.
And then we'll have a couple nice sweeps
going for the
morning. We'll check on
those. How long do these usually take?
The sweeps depends a ton on the
settings,
but I think at the moment we're the
average training speed is around like 3
billion steps an hour.
So few hours depends how much uh how
long I set it
for. And we're going pretty
quick. A million steps a second is like
3.6 6 billion steps an
hour. Some are a little faster, some are
a little slower, but and that's what we
aim for as a
baseline. Okay, here's our new
P3. It looks like we're already starting
to get
stuff. That's promising.
Maybe this will solve all our problems.
We will
see. And then here, yep, we have this
one as well.
Perfect. Now we have our sweep set up.
We have a couple more things to test.
Times
11:49. think we can maybe just think
about J for a few minutes and then I
will go get myself uh
some lunch followed by exercise followed
by a ton of meetings and then be back in
the evening. It'll be a good morning
work block. Uh but I want to think on
how's gym going. I mean it's
going I uh I'm starting to get my
compounds back into some form of shape.
I'm lifting really light and just doing
the higher rep stuff. Um I think I could
technically I technically have doctor
doctor's clearance to just do whatever
the hell I want now. But um I need to
put about 8 lbs of body weight back on.
And probably the easiest way to do that
is just going to be through like more
higher rep
training. And then we'll get the
strength cycle back going.
been ordering tons of gym equipment as
well. Um, but
anyways,
the the one thing I'm still not sure on
on
P30, I guess I can explain this real
quick. And to be fair, I don't even know
if J has this property. It probably
doesn't.
Oops.
So if this
is So if this is your time axis, so this
is like time zero and this is time
n or this is I guess t and t +
n. Let's just do this is time t. This is
time t +
n. And then this is the gamma.
So this is how much of a weight you
assign to each step in the
future. So how much do you care about
reward going into the
future? Let's say that you have a gamma
curve that looks something like
this. Okay? And then you set your
algorithm to have this horizon right
here. And then you train your model. You
fit your hyperpar. And you get optimal
hyperparams to this. Okay? But then like
if you change your
horizon, you have to retune your
hyperparameters now, right? Because this
waiting here is completely
different. So you're going to change all
the other hyperparameters in the
process. So I was trying to think if
there's like a good way I could come up
with um to avoid this problem in
general. like is there a way we can have
it so that uh if you increase this
horizon you don't screw up your optimal
hyperparameters. I'm not sure if there
is
I mean, I guess let's be clear here. I
think
J doesn't have this property at all,
right? Like, if you
just Okay, now that's actually really
interesting. So, if you think about it,
GE decays all the way up to Yeah. So J
keeps decaying but the thing is it
doesn't decay to zero as fast as you
would think. So you compute like you get
your whole trajectory segment like this.
So here's all your data. All right. And
then you start computing like your J
going
backwards. But then you split this thing
up into segments like this for training,
right? And the problem is like you
think, oh yeah, over this segment it
looks like this. But it doesn't. It
actually looks like this. So you don't
actually decay all the way to zero over
the course of a training
segment. So what happens then is if you
increase or decrease your batch size
that will dramatically change uh I would
think that would dramatically change the
overall
weightings. So if you just double your
batch size right if you make your uh
this longer or
shorter then suddenly you're going to be
adding a lot more reward to this curve
over here.
which still works but you have to
optimize hyperparame separately. I think
this is probably one of the things that
makes RL feel really janky though right
is like these hyperparameters are
coupled in unintuitive ways. So like you
can double your batch size and the
algorithm stops working right and it's
because of stuff like this. So I think
these are these are the things that we
need to care about
here. better sweep still
working. Same curve on each training
sample. You'd want to have it somehow
here. Let's let's not say you want the
same training curve. Let's say that you
want hyperparameters to the extent
possible not to interact in unintuitive
ways, right? So increasing your batch
size should strictly decrease your
variance and just make learning work
better.
for the same number of updates or
whatever. It shouldn't have like some
weirdo interaction where it screws up
the optimal J parameters or something
like that.
So instead of thinking about this
problem in the context of my new
algorithm, I could think about this
problem in the context of JE and that
would be uh a better starting point
because that's something you know more
familiar. So if I were to try to solve
this problem for GE, what would I
do? J E
Yeah, but what type of normalization,
right? You got to get very
specific. I mean, I guess there is kind
of the advantage normalization built
into this, right?
Yeah. Yeah, you will. Now, here's the
question though, right? So, is this
actually a problem if you normalize the
advantage? So, as written, right? This
is totally
screwed. 1 minus gamma term is normal.
That's not the normalization. That's
discounting. Those are two separate
things. And where's there a one minus
gamma? Oh, this thing.
No, this is just them doing um this is
that just them doing some algebra,
right? It reduces to this.
So the discount factor first of all the
discount factor parameter is very poorly
named because the real discount factor
is not gamma it's gamma*
lambda which is a huge
difference. They use it because this
discounting sum of gamma converges to 1
over 1 minus gamma which would change
the but they use it because the
discounting sum converges to 1 over 1
minus gamma.
Oh, wait. Discounting the sum. Did you
mean lambda? Cuz the factor they use
here is lambda, not
gamma. Lambda.
Okay. So I see. So this is their
normalization because the discounting
converges. So this sum converges
to 1 over 1 minus
gamma.
Interesting. Well, but then how does
this sum converge?
converge. They appear because that's
what it converges
to.
Yeah. The K converges
to that's what sum of lambda. Okay. So
it's what the interesting
But still like if you take you know
however many of these terms you take
makes a difference doesn't it? Like this
is a single factor. If you take more of
these terms or fewer of them you're
still going to have a different
magnitude sum.
But I think the key here is
that so this is an estimate right and
then this is attempting to pred you
train the value function to predict this
right the value function is trained to
predict this quantity
here wait what's this advantage at
infinity
Okay. Yeah. So you're training each of
these to predict
this. I guess there is an additional
value term, right?
Well, you train the value to predict
what is it the full thing, right?
Then yeah, you can jump on Discord.
Sure. You're on stream, but that's
fine. Hello.
Hello. Hello. Okay.
Oh, yeah. I always forget because people
have different usernames on, you know,
on the stream and on Discord. Yeah, I've
seen you around plenty. How's it going?
Yeah, good, good, good. Thanks. Yeah, so
I'm trying to figure this thing out. Um,
I mean, you basically it it's kind of
this moving target thing, right? Where
the advantage depends on the value
function because the value function is
trained to predict advantage plus value
or whatever, right?
Yeah.
So the question here right I think that
this formula on its own is broken in the
sense that if you just change the batch
size or something and therefore you
increase the number of steps over which
are going into the sum you should shift
the optimal hyperparameters because
you're going to change the scale of this
wouldn't you
yeah I think that makes sense but in
practice there is a normalization term
that is applied to this full thing.
Yeah. Okay. So I I I think we're getting
confused because maybe there's two uh
normalization. There's uh what there is
in in the GA paper that you just shown
which is some form of normalization but
also in the cleanl if you go there's a a
batch of code that shows uh
normalization uh in the sense where
they're just uh remove the the mean and
divide by the standard deviation. That's
what I was about to go to right here.
Yeah, this right. So, is this enough is
the question. Is this enough to make
this thing robust to batch
size because this mean and standard
deviation of the advantage? Well, the
advantage is already subtracting out the
value estimate.
Um, so would this make it so
that regardless of the batch size and
stuff that you put in,
uh, it's still going to be stable?
Um, sure
the standard deviation will
also change. So here like because the
problem I have with the new algorithm
I'm developing is it doesn't converge to
zero uh if you keep taking gamma out
further and further right and I've tried
to actually make it converge to zero and
if you do that it does worse because it
converges too quickly.
Yeah. So you know gamma
yeah if I remember correctly it
converges to the variance of your
rewards right Chris but so gamma does
converge right there gamma does
this but it does it more slowly than
most people would expect right like
actually very often like the horizon
that you're computing it over you could
be computing horizon here so you
actually have you know gamma at the end
could be like 04 or something you
actually have quite a bit of
contribution
um from terms that are pretty far
out. Now, mine does not converge to
zero. Mine does something, you know,
like this or
whatever. And then the question is if
you just keep taking this out further
and further, right? If you like expand
this time horizon so it looks like
this, how do you prevent these extra
values from messing up your saw?
And these are going to be very stable,
right? So like should the mean should in
theory should the mean and the the mean
and variance like the mean and uh
standard deviation account for this or
is this going to like massively reduce
the standard deviation and then screw uh
screw up the
stability like all this extra stuff
here. You're kind of just adding a
constant.
Yeah. I mean in a very naive way I would
just say uh
Uh, so it converges to the variance. So
I mean divide divide the entire sum by
the variance. But I think that's what
you tried, right? Divide the entire well
that's the advantage normalization
divides the sum by the standard
deviation, right?
Yeah, it subtracts the mean. So it
probably So basically just centers all
the advantages around zero. But I'm not
sure it's really
Okay. So basically it rescales them. So,
okay, it might to some extent um fix the
the the issue you were talking about,
but I don't even know if this is why we
have the issue. All I know for sure,
right, is that right now when I have my
algorithm and I have good
hyperparameters that work and I increase
the horizon from here to here, it stops
working.
Right? But that could be many things,
right? Because you're trying to fit in
my version of the algorithm, right? If
you have a value head output that say it
has 32 dimensions and you go up to 128
dimensions. There are two places that
you use this. One is right here. And if
I go to the
branch. Yeah. So I have this Gaussian uh
NLL right here. And I throw this on.
This is the prediction of the reward for
each time step going forward. And then
this is the actual reward you got. And
then here's the variance of your
prediction. So this is this could be a
capacity issue because this is just a
lot of data to throw into a model. It's
also possible that this is just really
noisy because like Yeah. it. Yeah.
You know, if you can let's say that
there's only enough signal to predict
like eight steps out, which is a pretty
common thing, right? And you're
predicting 32 to begin with, and then
you go up to 128. Like it you're kind of
just like fitting you have the same
amount of signal, but you have way more
noise, right? Yeah. Exactly. So, that's
what I was going to say. I was going to
ask you the question. Do you see the
variance just blows up when you start
increasing the the horizon of that?
because that's something that you would
uh probably get, you know, that's
something you get in in uh mathematical
finance, for example, where you just get
like a basically a trend, but it's just
uh you just add a shitload of of noise
uh which takes up most of uh what's
happening in your data. Um and I would I
would assume that there's no real at
least currently algorithm that is
capable of predicting 100 steps in the
future with good accuracy. So, not
initially.
Yeah. So, so I mean then like the
question here, right, is like how do you
prevent it from screwing screwing you up
because it's this the same amount of
signal is there, right, in the first
eight elements or whatever. Um,
it's just and it's it's not going to
blow up the loss to infinity. Like
you're not going to have a problem there
if you're taking a mean. What's going to
happen is like the proportion of the
signal that is actually learnable is
going to decrease and then this is going
to converge to like the sum of this will
converge to uh probably like one over
the standard deviation or just a
standard deviation something like that.
What
if I'm trying to just uh throw any ideas
maybe done but what if you try to remove
uh the variance that would just center
your entire curve uh and make it
converge to zero whenever the whenever
it starts converging to the variance
basically the idea would be to make it
converge to zero. So interesting no
matter how many steps you add the new
steps will just be weighted by zero
anyway so it doesn't matter. Um, you
know, that might work cuz I tried that,
but I only tried that in the advantage
calculation. I didn't try it in the
value loss. So, if we keep what if we
keep this thing for the advantage
calculation cuz this shouldn't screw up
the advantage calculation, right? This
is just adding a constant and then
you're subtracting the mean anyways,
right?
Yeah. So, this shouldn't screw up
advantage calculation. The only thing it
can screw up is probably this value
function. And then if we center it for
the purpose of this value function, this
would be like new value mean minus new
value standard deviation reward block
minus like standard deviation or reward
standard deviation or whatever. Like we
could do that, right?
Yeah. Just uh we need to make sure that
uh I'm not really So you talk it
converges to variance. you're now
talking about standard deviation, but
just you know um make sure that you
center basically it centers around zero
uh one of the other but yeah it
converges to
it probably converges to the variance
that was makes no sense but does it I
thought it converged to the standard
deviation
uh can you remind me what's the second
thing you're predict so you're
predicting mean and so the way it works
right is normally you just predict a
single value that's going to be equal to
this advantage function in our case we
are directly trying to predict the
reward for the next n steps right and
then we also out have a head that
predicts the variance or the standard
deviation right of that as well um okay
yes so I think the important question is
which one does it predict the you said
the variance or the standard deviation I
think I could have that wrong as well
should it wait what what would it
converge to does it converge to variance
or standard deviation um
well I think it depends what the second
head uh is is trying to output. So yeah,
well the second head is the second head
can output whichever of those that it
wants, right? The the loss function
itself is Gaussian NLLL and it's trained
on the variance.
Uh let me check the documentation on
this one.
I mean with caution I would expect it to
output some sort of standard deviation
rather than variance. I checked it does
the input for this is supposed to be
variance. I mean you can implement it
either way,
right? You just take square root or
square. It's actually pretty simple to
check, right? You just uh start your
algorithm prints the variance and prints
whatever it converts to at the end and
you just check. Yeah, it looked to me
like it was the standard deviation when
I was
logging. I could have okay but I mean
what yeah okay so first step might be to
make sure of this but then once we have
this the ID stays the same right you
just remove that so you center around
zero and yeah okay I mean that's fairly
easy to do and then let's see what that
would do would you then I guess you
would probably sum this then instead of
taking the mean
right because the more elements you add
the mean goes down right so you shift
the value loss
Uh, yep. Yeah. Yeah, I think you're
right. So, if you you subtract you
subtract out the mean here or the the
expected, you basically are subtracting
out a baseline that's equal to well,
what if you just predict predict
majority or whatever, right? You predict
like the frequency of
reward.
Um, and then when you do that, then the
actual magnitude of that sum should be
equal to the amount of signal that you
have. So you would sum that and that
would give you a clean value loss
potentially.
Yeah, I think that's worth trying. That
makes sense at least in my head, but I'm
not sure maybe you would need to put
that on paper. Now the one other thing
that I do have running at the moment
which is kind of interesting. We'll see
how this compares because I ran this
experiment uh before but I did it wrong.
So I added just like an alpha term where
in the actual uh computation of
advantage you subtract out some fraction
of I guess this is the variance standard
deviation squared
um yeah so I subtract out some fraction
of is it one over
variance because gamma term here is this
is one over variance is our gamma and
then here I'm subtracting one over the
like the actual uh variance of the
reward. So this would like lurp because
if you set this to one, right? If you
set this alpha term to one, then you're
basically subtracting a baseline from
the advantage calculation itself. But I
think that the thing that you proposed
is better.
Um yeah, I think that the thing that you
proposed is better because this this
also shifts the advantage calculation of
uh this also shifts the advantage
calculation not just the
loss.
Yeah. Cool.
The only thing I'm not sure about here
is still um you will still get some
noise in the loss even if you subtract
the baseline and the the longer steps
the more steps you take the more noise
you get
right though this should help a
lot because I think that's the thing
that would that got me before when I was
trying to subtract this out from the
advantage calculatorul
population. Um, you know, the noise
would sum up to be quite a
bit. You subtract the mean, but then
there's still a fair bit of noise. Um,
technically, you said the noise summed
up to something cuz I mean, from pure
intuition, I would say that the me there
should probably be a white noise
somehow, I guess, cuz mean zero. Yeah.
Uh it could be
but I mean even even you can take it as
a mean zero right because if if noise
doesn't have mean zero and then you just
add whatever is the mean of the noise to
your model and then makes the noise
away. Okay I think that makes sense. I
think that this we'll try this obviously
I'm going to let the current experiments
run but uh maybe later this this evening
I will see if I can implement that and
see if this does anything. Let's see how
this puff is doing right at the moment.
This is uh where is it? Break out
atom. Man, you got to love having like
30 experiments already finished in that
amount of
time. Sample
three. Got both Impulse Wars camera
modes working. Nice.
Those Impulse Wars pictures look so
sick.
The environment is entirely captain's
work. I just I spent a couple days
trying to spruce up the render and then
I handed him a horrible blob of ugly
code like here you finish it. But uh
yeah, moving on to be a UX designer. I
see. Right. I mean it's like I've done
enough graphic stuff for the other end.
So I just figured like okay this is an
awesome end but it needs to needs to
look the part otherwise people are going
to go this looks too simple.
Yeah. So, this is what I was worried
with and I think this is what happened
before as
well. Hang
on. Yeah. So, this is set to true now.
Okay. Well, we'll wait for that to run
and then we will uh we'll see later. And
let me just one last thing before I go
grab lunch. I want to just check on our
atom
experiments. It'd be so funny if I've
been doing all of this work and like it
turns out that just the most important
thing is just freaking sweep atom
parameters. I honestly wouldn't even be
surprised. Yep. Look at
that. Literally, we've run 16
experiments and we have a a 67 second
solve.
Wow, man. RL is
stupid. Okay. Yeah. Let's see. Captain,
go ahead. You can show that thing off.
Let's see. Let's hop in
here. Man, I I don't know why I even
bother with all this fancy algorithm
stuff when there's just like so many
easy wins, right? That that literally
took me five minutes to do that. Yeah,
but I mean in some sense it really shows
up some the [__] in real and I mean
deep learning in general, right? Yeah.
Yeah, sure. But I mean deep learning in
general too like yeah PO is super fast
and stuff but I mean look at how many
steps it takes to solve stuff. It still
need huge sweeps. I mean, you know, I
mean, there's weirdness that like I
think that honestly what just happens is
in a lot of the rest of learning like
the problems are just too expensive for
people to sweep so they just don't right
like if you Okay, so it's it's either
too expensive or the algo are not good
enough. You know what I mean? Um, well,
this is fair. I don't think that the
only piece I see in PO that's like that
is J, which is why I was working on this
algorithm, right? Because if you think
about it, like what other
hyperparameters are there in RL that you
don't have in the rest of deep learning?
Wait, what did you sweep over and get a
faster solve? Atom parameters.
Uh what did you sweep over? Like epsilon
and betas and epsilon. Yeah, that made a
huge difference. Yes, massive. It's 16
experiments in and has already beaten
our best result so far by uh 33%.
Um of time spent 67 second solve is our
best right now.
Yeah. I wonder if this is something we
just set or forget or this needs to be
tuned for every M. Well, this is the
cool thing with Puffer, right? is that
we will like what I would like to do
once we get everything in a nice steady
state is we can just run this on every
single environment and we can find that
out for certain.
Yeah, cuz there there's been papers
trying to figure this out but the amount
of experiments they did were low and
they also didn't do actual sweeps. They
just like tried they just did very small
grid searches. So we can actually do
this and if you're interested in helping
like this is a really easy way to
contribute to science side. uh you know,
we have the boxes that we have now.
We're getting uh the first 5090 sample
machine in probably next week. And then
in probably less than a month, uh I'm
flying out and moving to the new
facility and I'll spend at least a
couple months there. And uh I we're not
going to be able to get machines in
quickly, but we will have capacity there
for 40 machines. So we'll like start
buying stuff, right?
And then all those machines will be like
for the most part for usage uh for
Puffer and for contributors to do this
type of work. Okay.
Nice. Yeah. Yeah. I I'm definitely down.
I'm I'm nearing the finish line of this
thing. So, I'm excited to start like
just running some basic experiments and
stuff. Yeah. And then Spencer was
supposed to also be on this, but then I
kind of stole him for GPU drive. Yeah,
that makes sense. But it's it's still
cool cuz he's going to crush that thing.
He's going to like completely crush
their trading speed and it's going to be
hilarious.
I mean, he already he's already at like
500k, I think he said. So, yeah, but he
has to get the sim to like match theirs
when he matches theirs and 10xes their
training speed. It's just like Yeah. GG
for the uh the engine.
Yeah, that's pretty cool. Oh, we also do
have GPU accelerated stuff now. Uh cuz I
had like a 4-hour call with Brennan, the
Madrona dev, uh like for one of his ends
that we legitimately cannot do in Puffer
fast without his stuff. And uh he got
that bound to Puffer in that call. So be
fun.
It's straight up Call of Duty. Like it's
straight up like he has a Call of Duty M
on Call of Duty maps.
Gosh, that's so cool. Um
I was thinking
Yeah. Yeah. So, I was thinking um I
could show it, but why don't cuz you
already have it ready. Why don't you
just like switch that branch and just
try it with the controller?
Uh do I have
my not even unpack this thing? Let's
see.
Oh, yeah. If you're just plugging in, it
should just be plug and play. Is it an
official Xbox controller? Uh I think I
got something like slightly better. I
think I got ones with like Hall effect
switches on them.
Oh, okay. They're supposed to be like
more precise than Andy Drift.
Okay. Yeah, I've heard of those. That's
cool. It was cheap.
It was really funny. So, one of my
friends uh I was trying to show Impulse
Wars 2 and it wasn't really working on a
Mac cuz like uh Rale dependencies were
being weird. But anyway, we were like he
was showing me this website where you
can test the accuracy of your joysticks
and he has like an Xbox Elite controller
he paid like a lot of money for. Yeah.
and I just have like a Switch Pro
controller and I was getting like 5% uh
error or something on my sticks and he
was getting like 12 and he was like
dumbfounded. Yeah. Apparently the only
like the base Xbox controllers are
better than a lot of uh a lot of what
you can buy out there, funny enough.
Yeah. And I don't know I like my Switch
Pro controller. It's pretty good. Yeah.
I don't have a do I I think I actually
do technically have a switch. That's a
long story. Um I have no idea where that
even
is. Maybe I don't. I forget if I have
that anymore.
Hopefully it should just work because
this for at least for me on Linux is
plug and play if I plug it
[Music]
in. Oh. Oh. Oh, this it's funny. Xbox
button opens Steam. Yeah, you might want
to close Steam. Um, like just close it
from like the the tab at the top right
like fully close it because that
sometimes like interferes with like rail
stuff.
Does it? That's funny.
Yeah. At least Yeah. Yeah. You got to
exit Steam. Uh, that's weird. There's no
like option.
Yeah. I mean, worst case, you can just
kill the Steam process from the command
line. So, yeah. Switch to
Wait, what? What did I do? Unmerge apps.
This is probably just for review
comments or something. Just dash it and
then Oh, CD. Puffer impulse.
Oh, this is different. Okay. Puffer
impulse.
See, that's what happened. There were
two different repos. Yeah. So,
uh, I made the second one trying to fix
the original bug, the merge bug. Okay.
What's the branch?
It should just be 3D hyphen render.
But wait, does get branch not list them
all? I can't
remember.
Yeah. Um, I think this was a single
branch clone. Oh, 3D render ring.
Yeah.
Upstream. No.
[Music]
Just just check out get checkout 3D
rendering.
I don't think you can do that. Yeah, I'm
pretty sure you can. No,
I think it's because the clone is a
single branch.
We'll do get branch tac L and that'll
tell you all the
branches because just get branch I think
just tells you the branch you're on.
Yeah. So, this still tack lowerase L.
Yeah, it's not showing up. It's on
GitHub. It's pushed.
I don't know what's up with your repo.
It was a single branch clone.
How did What? You don't know that dash
single branch when you clone. Oh, why
would you do that? because it's way
faster.
Okay, it's probably just a remote,
right? You can probably just change your
remote, I bet. But this is fine. And a
third clone. What?
I would just do mine. Don't just because
like All right. Where is it?
It's just uh Captain Space Impulse Wars.
I accidentally Googled
imp. Oh, and I figured out why you had
to install all those packages when
you're initially doing it. It's because
um uh Ray lib is being built from source
whereas in puffer you're not building
ray. You're just linking the archive. So
that's why you had installed the
additional packages because you're
building ray from source. So this make
what is it?
Uh so switch branches
first. Yeah, just do try this get switch
um 3D rendering that should work.
What? Oh, it is a Yeah, my bad.
This is nice cuz GSH you just tab
complete. It has like tab complete stuff
forget. So, I don't actually ever like
have Oh,
yeah. I hate
underscore. Yeah, you should look into
ZSH Band. It's such a nice nice show.
Um yeah, I just do make release um demo
because the render in debug mode runs
really slow, but in release mode it's
it's like very fast. Well, plenty fast
enough. But yeah, I thought I had like
an optimization issue with the 3D
rendering and then I was like, "Oh,
wait. I'm building into bug mode." Yeah.
Um I really didn't think it'd make that
much of a difference for rendering, but
it it does. We have a lot of janky
lights and stuff.
No, I removed all the lights because um
Oh, really? Well, yeah, just cuz I got
Bloom working. Oh, okay. Um, how's this
work?
Error. Oh, you're using the old You have
to go back and remove that thing. Okay.
So, yeah, really quick. Um, edit the
CMake file because yeah, you're using
the old GCC version.
Oh, wait. Just search for GNU.
Just search
GNU. Uh, remove that. And then just for
safe, just remove wear. I mean, what?
Yeah, you can try without
wear. It builds for me with wear,
but I'll w error.
Yeah. Yeah.
There we go. And then it's just in
release
demo.
Demo. Does it work? Can you I can't see
your guy because your chair is covering
it. Well,
can you Is your aim working?
No.
Yeah, it's not detecting your controller
if your mouse moving. Yeah, try killing
Steam and then restarting it. I've had
issues with that before.
Dude, how's this not a thing that you
can't just You can't kill Steam. I don't
know. I can do it like it lets me do it
from the top. You can just do kill all
Steam or something. Yeah, I think I'm
going to have to do that.
I like how kill all doesn't even kill it
instant
like Oh, it's still okay. Never mind.
Now it disappeared. Hopefully it works
now. Still no.
[Music]
Yeah, that's
weird. We'll have to get this to work. I
can do this. I don't know
why. So, if you So, this is the dynamic
cam. If you want to try like the just
the straight top down cam, I have uh you
just tabs. Oh, I like this. This is
good. Let's see where the sun bloom is.
Yeah. Do you see it like on the on
around the drones and also projectiles?
It's It's not like you don't really get
like the full bright projectile effect
yet, do you?
I mean, the projectiles look way better
on them, but yeah, the projectiles look
way better. You don't get like Yeah, I
think
Yeah, I think I just need to increase
like the amount it blurs basically.
You might still need the lights for like
muzzle flare or something.
Uh, I think that honestly be too like
noisy from a visuals perspective because
the original doesn't have that either
because especially like when you're
shooting a lot that's just like a lot of
flashing. The original like well the
shotgun looked really cool on the
version I sent you with like all the
lights stacked up.
Yeah, it it did but I think it was just
a little too much honestly. The
explosions are the last thing. I have
some shaders with Logan and shader toy I
think I'm going to work with. Um
but but yeah, what do you think overall?
I've made a lot of like obviously like
Yeah, UI is way better. Uh did you get a
new font? No, you didn't. Did you? No,
that won't. You should probably get like
an appropriate font for this.
Yeah. So, yeah, try try the other cams.
See what you think of that. just tab.
Uh, probably easier to play but way
worse visually. Yeah, but I mean that's
You have the option now which is nice.
No ISO mode.
What do you mean?
Oh yeah. I mean I I could add that but
not right now.
Yeah, I think that uh I think you should
for for viewing purposes. It looks cool.
I mean, if you want it, I can add it. I
don't really, honestly, I wouldn't
probably use iso mode at all because it
kind of makes it it hard. No, it's for
watching bots, not for playing. No, I
know. But even then, like you could bots
could be covered and you can't really
see if you're they're going to hit a
wall. You know what I mean? Like it's
hard to tell like where they are based
on angle.
Yeah, these I mean these projectiles
look cool.
Yeah, actually syncing up the 2D and
because there's actually two cameras. I
have a 2D camera for the like the UI
that's following the drones and I have a
3D camera for everything else. Getting
them to sync up wasn't horrible.
Actually, I thought it'd be way worse
than it
was. Yeah. I don't know why your
controller isn't working, though. That's
That's annoying. Linux.
Yeah, probably.
I wonder I'll have to try and get it
working on the web again and then I
wonder if it'll just work when you're on
the web because I've had some times
where it works on the web and doesn't
because it's like different controller
drivers with web rail gun you can just
rail them. Yeah.
Oh no, we've got the black hole.
Yeah, I need to add a cool effect for
that too because now right now you can't
really see like the whole radius.
Yeah, I think the dynamic cam works
pretty well. What do you think? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Looks so cool, man. You add
some cyberpunk music on top of it and
then you're Yeah. I don't think I'm
going to go with sound effects just cuz
like Do you want I'm trying to think if
it would be better.
I like the cubes how you added them like
you had to do multiple faces for that
probably, right? Uh what do you mean?
Like did you have to do a different
texture for top or something because
it's a rectangle? Oh no. I basically
just stacked them like I just draw.
Okay. You just made more. Okay. Yeah.
And it's plenty fast.
What is this? Rail gun is like
overpowered as [__] Yeah, it's it's
sometimes hard to hit them though. It
depends. Mhm. Well, the other thing is
you could do the no you can do the no
gun challenge.
Let's see. Like only burst.
Let's see if I can get it.
Ah, I should at least get the sniper to
move.
Oh,
yeah. The black hole is pulling you.
Yeah, it's cool.
Yeah, I'm really happy with this now
because we have like the top down mode
for like actual play and then Yeah, we
This looks pretty cool. I think this
will be this will be cool once we get
this released. It's
solid. You did delete all the puffer
colors. I see.
Yeah, I need to tweak them. I don't
These aren't the finer colors, but I
think like the black background works
best. Honestly, that gives the most
contrast. And yeah, like some of the
other like the puffer cyan in
particular, it just was there wasn't
enough contrast for me. Like you you
couldn't as easily tell like what type
of walls were which and stuff. That's
funny.
[Music]
Okay, I'm going to have to leave you
guys. Yeah, I got to I got to run as
well. Um uh keep keep me posted just
when um if that works. I'll try that
later today. I mean, we have all the
experiments running already. So, I'm
going to go do that. I got to go get
food. I got to go do a bunch of stuff.
I've got a bunch of meetings today and
then uh evening we'll be doing more
stuff. So, uh, yeah, thanks you too. And
for the folks on Twitch, uh, if you want
to check out all of this stuff and even
get involved with dev, it's all open
source. puffer.ai star the GitHub really
helps us out. You can join the Discord.
It's just
discord.gg/puffer. And you can follow me
on X for more RL content.